

Another useful feature of match arms is that they can bind to the parts of the
values that match the pattern. This is how we can extract values out of enum
variants.

As an example, let’s change one of our enum variants to hold data inside it.
From 1999 through 2008, the United States minted quarters with different
designs for each of the 50 states on one side. No other coins got state
designs, so only quarters have this extra value. We can add this information to
our `enum` by changing the `Quarter` variant to include a `UsState` value stored
inside it, which we’ve done here in the code snippet below.

```rust
#[derive(Debug)] // so we can inspect the state in a minute
enum UsState {
    Alabama,
    Alaska,
    // --snip--
}

enum Coin {
    Penny,
    Nickel,
    Dime,
    Quarter(UsState),
}
```

#### A `Coin` enum in which the `Quarter` variant also holds a `UsState` value

Let’s imagine that a friend of ours is trying to collect all 50 state quarters.
While we sort our loose change by coin type, we’ll also call out the name of
the state associated with each quarter so if it’s one our friend doesn’t have,
they can add it to their collection.

In the match expression for this code, we add a variable called `state` to the
pattern that matches values of the variant `Coin::Quarter`. When a
`Coin::Quarter` matches, the `state` variable will bind to the value of that
quarter’s state. Then we can use `state` in the code for that arm, like so:

```rust
fn value_in_cents(coin: Coin) -> u8 {
    match coin {
        Coin::Penny => 1,
        Coin::Nickel => 5,
        Coin::Dime => 10,
        Coin::Quarter(state) => {
            println!("State quarter from {:?}!", state);
            25
        }
    }
}
```

If we were to call `value_in_cents(Coin::Quarter(UsState::Alaska))`, `coin`
would be `Coin::Quarter(UsState::Alaska)`. When we compare that value with each
of the match arms, none of them match until we reach `Coin::Quarter(state)`. At
that point, the binding for `state` will be the value `UsState::Alaska`. We can
then use that binding in the `println!` expression, thus getting the inner
state value out of the `Coin` enum variant for `Quarter`.
